As it happens not after it happened

Get the latest news in real time. A new and faster way to catch up on every breaking news story and all the latest developments as they unfold. Available with the premium tier for £5.99/m.
What term do you want to search? Search with google
More than 1,000 counterprotesters gathered near the White House in Washington DC on Sunday to rally against a scheduled Unite the Right rally. The demonstration was held on the first anniversary of a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that turned violent and led to the death of Heather Heyer
In the latest Guardian documentary, we follow the exceptional life story of Corey Pegues and ask who gets a second chance in America

Growing up in Jamaica, Queens, in the 70s and 80s, Corey Pegues played Cops and Robbers like all the other kids on the block, but he never expected to become both.

A spirited child, he came of age surrounded by his mother’s and sisters’ love and by true friendship on the basketball court. He had to learn to navigate a world built on street cred, violence, loyalty and the fight for survival. But his true search began the day he decided to run away.

In the documentary Cops and Robbers, Corey Pegues’ exceptional life story questions how and why we change. To what extent is personal transformation possible? And who gets a second chance in America?

The director, Ilinca Calugareanu, is a Romanian based in the UK. Her previous short documentary for the Guardian, Erica: Man Made, was about one of the world’s most advanced semi-autonomous androids. Her debut documentary feature, Chuck Norris vs Communism, about the black market trade in VHS of western action films in communist Romania, premiered at the Sundance film festival in 2015.



Coming up: Little Pyongyang



Joong-wha, a former soldier in North Korea, lives today with his wife and children in a sleepy London suburb, home to Europe’s biggest North Korean population. Despite enjoying the newfound comforts of his British life and being emancipated from the pressures of the North Korean state, he has a desire to return to the land that betrayed him and that feels like his true home.

Released 3 August

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Still from Little Pyongyang documentary Photograph: Roxy Rezvany & Annette Remler for the Guardian

More about Guardian documentaries

If you’re wondering what our plans are for documentaries on the Guardian and why we do what we do, read my Inside the Guardian article about our ideas for the summer and beyond.

Support the Guardian



If you like what we do with documentaries at the Guardian, then please consider becoming a supporter. Our ability to investigate and expose stories such as these is made possible by our supporters. Join today to support our journalism.
What term do you want to search? Search with google
Guardian’s latest documentary looks at how US prisons have become recruiting grounds for human traffickers

The Trap investigates how prisons and jails across the United States have become recruiting grounds for human traffickers, who are targeting incarcerated women and trafficking them out of correctional facilities and into pimp-controlled prostitution.

For the past 18 months, the Guardian has been investigating the role of the criminal justice system in feeding vulnerable women into America’s thriving domestic sex trafficking industry. With unique access in Florida, Massachusetts and Chicago, the film follows the stories of women caught in the trap of criminal exploitation and incarceration and those trying to stop some of America’s most vulnerable women from falling under the control of human traffickers.

Play Video 32:04 The Trap: the deadly sex-trafficking cycle in American prisons

The film is part of a major investigation by Annie Kelly, an award-winning human rights journalist for the Guardian and Observer. She is editor of the Guardian’s Modern-day slavery in focus series

Documentary recommendations

At the cinema

There are some excellent one-off screenings coming up in the next couple of weeks.

The Rio Cinema is showing the wonderful Ex Libris as part of a national day of screenings about libraries on 15 July. I love this long observational film about the New York Public Library. They’ve also got a one-off event with The Shining Forwards and Backwards on 12 July, which looks for hidden meanings in the classic horror film.

Bertha DocHouse is showing Our New President on 1 July. Composed entirely of found footage, Maxim Pozdorovkin’s jaw-dropping fever-dream of a documentary tracks the 2016 US election through the lens of the Russian propaganda machine. I reviewed it in January. Also showing in July is Naila and The Uprising, the story of the Palestinian resistance leader Naila Ayesh, which offers a window into the history of a fierce, relentless and discerning network of Palestinian women who led a civil resistance movement during the first intifada in 1987.

The big national release in July is Whitney, the second Whitney Houston documentary in a year and, for me, the much better one. Officially approved by her family, it features some poignant revelations from those close to her.

Online

Watch Grenfell on iPlayer, the BBC’s meticulous feature-length documentary about the fire. It draws from hundreds of hours of interview, archive, social media content and observational footage to form a compelling, moving and lasting record of the events before, during and after the fire. It features intimate accounts from many of the men, women and children whose lives were forever intertwined and irrevocably changed that night – some of whom have never spoken publicly before.

Support the Guardian



If you like what we do with documentaries at the Guardian, then please consider becoming a supporter. Our ability to investigate and expose stories such as these is made possible by our supporters. Join today to support our journalism.
What term do you want to search? Search with google
What term do you want to search? Search with google
What term do you want to search? Search with google
What term do you want to search? Search with google
The archbishop of Genoa, Cardinal Angelo Bagnasco, led a state funeral service on Saturday for the victims of the Morandi Bridge collapse, as rescue workers continued to search for people still unaccounted for. Italy’s president, Sergio Mattarella, the prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, and deputy prime ministers Luigi Di Maio and Matteo Salvini attended the ceremony.

Genoa bridge collapse: thousands attend state funeral for victims
Kofi Annan, the former UN secretary general who has died at the age of 80 after a short illness, was awarded the Nobel peace prize in 2001 for his humanitarian work and for helping revitalise the UN during a period that coincided with the Iraq war and the HIV/Aids pandemic

Kofi Annan, former UN secretary general, dies
Donald Trump has defended his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, who faces 18 counts of tax evasion and bank fraud. Trump’s comments came as a jury convened in Virginia, following a three-week trial in which federal prosecutors called 27 witnesses to testify against Manafort. He faces up to 305 years in prison
Deontay Wilder gatecrashed Tyson Fury's weigh-in with Francesco Pianeta. The heavyweight champion then had an aggressive altercation with Fury's father, John. Wilder has flown to Belfast to get a closer look Fury before they meet in Las Vegas in November
The political satirist Tom Walker, creator of faux-news reporter Jonathan Pie, tells the Guardian’s Owen Jones why he believes most arguments are framed according to an individual’s gender, sexuality or skin colour.

Walker, whose off-camera ‘rants’ have brought him millions of hits online, believes the left’s rush to call out racism and misogyny could have dangerous ramifications for freedom of speech.



An extended version of this interview is available on Owen Jones’s YouTube channel
The Stonewall chief executive, Ruth Hunt, talks to Owen Jones about her shock at the level of vitriol directed at transgender and non-binary people. She says the scale of abuse in the UK has contributed to high levels of self-harm, mental illness and suicidal thoughts in trans communities




Momentum founder Jon Lansman dismisses reports he and other members of Labour’s national executive committee failed to act on allegations of antisemitism in the party. In an interview with the Guardian’s Owen Jones, Lansman says the left and right wings of the party are committed to dealing with the problem



An extended version of this interview is available on Owen Jones’s YouTube channel
Amid the recriminations over the Sergei Skprial poisoning, questions have been raised about how the UK government deals with Russia. Is expelling diplomats enough? Or would clamping down on the use of offshore accounts and money laundering to invest in London properties hurt the Kremlin more? Owen Jones takes a bus trip around London to find out
Christine Hallquist won the Democratic gubernatorial primary in Vermont on Tuesday night with 48% of the vote. Hallquist is one of at least 40 transgender candidates standing for election in the 2018 midterms, but she is the first to win a major nomination. She will face the Republican governor, Phil Scott, on 6 November

• Primaries: Democrats choose transgender candidate as Republicans snub Trump critic
The rapid influx of these beaver-like rodents has decimated parts of the Californian wetlands. They were introduced to the US for the fur trade and now share wetland areas with some of the west coast’s most endangered species. The California department of fish and wildlife has compared the threat of their presence to that of wildfires

California v nutria: state seeks to eradicate scourge of giant rodents
A man has been arrested on suspicion of terrorism offences after a car crashed into cyclists and pedestrians before hitting security barriers outside the Houses of Parliament.

The suspect, in his late 20s, was arrested and taken to a police station in south London. Police are treating it as a terrorist incident. Two people were taken to hospital


Eight-time Olympic sprinting gold medallist Usain Bolt says his attempt at a professional football career is not part of an elaborate PR stunt. Arriving in Sydney on Saturday, Bolt is set to begin an indefinite training period at Central Coast Mariners in Australia’s A-League
Ben Stokes has been recalled to face India in the third Test at Trent Bridge. England’s Joe Root explained that it was one of his ‘most difficult decisions’ as captain. Sam Curran is omitted from the side
England head coach Trevor Bayliss expects Ben Stokes to issue a public apology after he was cleared of affray. Speaking ahead of Saturday’s third Test against India Bayliss added the decision was made for Stokes’s wellbeing
Tyson Fury goaded his heavyweight rival Deontay Wilder ahead of his fight with Francesco Pianeta at Windsor Park on Saturday.

The 30-year-old’s comeback continues with a showdown against the experienced Pianeta in Belfast, where Wilder will be present as an analyst for BT Sport. Negotiations for the two to meet in December are at an advanced stage and should Fury overcome Pianeta, it is likely one of the division’s super-fights will move a step closer.

‘If I come through this then Wilder has the chance to fight me for the lineal championship. Let’s face it, he’s not really fought anybody and he’s had 40 fights, Fury said.

Pianeta has won all but five of his 40 fights. ‘He’s a big strong fella and he knows that if he wins he will fight Wilder instead of me,’ Fury said.

Fury made his comeback in June after two and a half years out of the ring by overwhelming Sefer Seferi inside four rounds.
